[DO NOT MERGE] Documentation (#111)
canonical/kyuubi-k8s-operator: docs/how-to/h-enable-encryption.md

# How to enable encryption

The Charmed Apache Kyuubi K8s charm implements the Requirer side of the [`tls-certificates/v4`](https://charmhub.io/tls-certificates-interface/libraries/tls_certificates) charm relation.
Therefore, any charm implementing the Provider side could be used.
To enable encryption, you should first deploy a TLS certificates Provider charm.

## Deploy a TLS Provider charm

One possible option, suitable for testing, could be to use the `self-signed-certificates` charm..

To deploy a `self-signed-certificates` charm:

```shell
# deploy the TLS charm
juju deploy self-signed-certificates --channel=1/stable
# add the necessary configurations for TLS
juju config self-signed-certificates ca-common-name="Test CA"

> ```

Reviewer: Suggestion: Let's replace comments with proper text for visibility and to avoid repetition:

````suggestion
```shell
juju deploy self-signed-certificates --channel=1/stable
```

Add necessary configuration parameters:

```shell
juju config self-signed-certificates ca-common-name="Test CA"
```
````

[note]

> This setup is not recommended for production clusters.

Reviewer: Suggestion: wording.

```suggestion
We recommend to avoid using self-signed TLS certificates for production environments.
```

> Please refer to [this post](https://charmhub.io/topics/security-with-x-509-certificates) for an overview of the TLS certificates Providers charms and some guidance on how to choose the right charm for your use case.

Reviewer: Chore: Avoid using "this" for links.

```suggestion
Please refer to the [X.509 certificates post](https://charmhub.io/topics/security-with-x-509-certificates) for an overview of the TLS certificates Providers charms and some guidance on how to choose the right charm for your use case.
```

[/note]

## Relate the charms

```

> juju relate <tls-certificates> kyuubi-k8s

Reviewer: Chore: `relate` will be deprecated in Juju v.4. We are supposed to replace it with `integrate` where we can. For both commands and descriptions/instructions. Please make sure to check it everywhere, including headers. The general guidance is - we can use nouns (relation), but for verbs and commands, avoid using "relate".

```suggestion
juju integrate <tls-certificates> kyuubi-k8s
```

See also: 
* [Juju relate](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/reference/juju-cli/list-of-juju-cli-commands/relate/)
* [Juju relations](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/reference/relation/#departing-relations)

```

where `<tls-certificates>` is the name of the TLS certificate provider charm deployed.

To disable TLS remove the relation:

```shell
juju remove-relation <tls-certificates> kyuubi-k8s
```

## Manage keys

Updates to private keys for certificate signing requests (CSR) can be made via the `tls-client-private-key` configuration option.
If this configuration option is not provided, the charm will generate a new private key and use it instead.

```shell
# generate shared internal key
openssl genrsa -out internal-key.pem 3072

# create a new juju secret 
juju add-secret kyuubi-tls-secret private-key#file=internal-key.pem
# The command above returns the secret id e.g. secret:d1seounmp25c76bq4ha0

# grant secret access to the app, and configure the app to use the secret
juju grant-secret kyuubi-tls-secret kyuubi-k8s
juju config kyuubi-k8s tls-client-private-key=secret:d1seounmp25c76bq4ha0

> ```

Reviewer: Suggestion:

Replace this single code block containing comments with separate code blocks containing only commands and ordinary text between them for instructions from comments.

Author: Done in 05848d2dee9323e6f81291c833be0045ff8706e2

> Private keys may be rotated by updating the secret using `juju update-secret`.

Reviewer: Suggestions:
1. Let's improve the wording here to avoid "may be"/"can be".
2. I think the command is incomplete.
3. Let's provide a link for more information on the command from the Juju docs.

````suggestion
To rotate a private key, update the associated secret:

 ```shell
 juju update-secret <ID/name>
 ```

> See also: `juju update-secret` aommand [reference](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/reference/juju-cli/list-of-juju-cli-commands/update-secret/).
````

Author: Done in 05848d2dee9323e6f81291c833be0045ff8706e2

## Retrieve the certificate chain

> The data-integrator charm can be used to retrieve the certificate in use, through the `kyuubi_client` interface.

Reviewer: Suggestion: Let's update all "can be" and "may be" casese similarly to the one above. 
`"To <goal>... <do this>: <commands to do _this_>"`

Author: Done in 05848d2dee9323e6f81291c833be0045ff8706e2
